> Source: 02A Netepic Optional Rules V5 Final 1, p.40 (02a_netepic_optional_rules_v5_final_1.pdf)

# NetEpic 5.0 Optional Rules

agents silos and a hundred other devices seemingly designed to make Forgeworlds very hazardous battlefields to fight over!

|d6|1|2|3|4|5|6|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|1|Depot|Scrap|Furnace|Scrap|Smelting Works|Scrap|
|2|Scrap|Road|Scrap|Road|Temple|Furnace|
|3|Smelting Works|Road|Power Station|Scrap|Road|Scrap|
|4|Molten River|Road|Road|Temple|Road|Depot|
|5|Factory|Landing Pad|Road|Road|Molten River|Power Station|
|6|Molten River|Road|Scrap|Road|Temple|Depot|

**Depot:** This is where the produce of the Adeptus Mechanicus is stored before being shipped off-world to other parts of the Imperium. Depending on what is being built in this particular part of the Forgeworld, the depot may contain a collection of warehouses filled with crate after crate of weapons and ammunition which provide cover (treat as Ruins). Or maybe it is a huge parking lot normally filled with ranks of gleaming factory-fresh Rhinos and Leman Russ battle tanks (but is now a huge expanse of Road which can be crossed over quickly, but is surrounded by a high wall or fence.

**Factory:** The buildings where the Adeptus Mechanicus actually construct their creations, from components forged in the smelting works or built in other parts of the factory. Huge automated, open-topped production lines churn out hundreds of items an hour: whirring cranes lift vehicle chassis onto speedy conveyor belts, semi-intelligent robotic arms labor night and day welding, riveting, painting and coating everything that passes by them. The factory is a veritable maze of small alleys which are impassable to vehicles but provide valuable cover to infantry skulking between them (treat as a Standard Building).

**Furnace:** A huge open-topped furnace forms part of the landscape in this area, feeding metal to nearby automatic hammers, pile drivers and mass production lines. The heat from the furnace is almost unbearable. The furnace itself is impassable to every type of unit, while the area surrounding it (up to about 5 cm from the edges) is very dangerous: any model that attempts to move in or through it will suffer a hit on a d6 roll of 4+ with a -2 TSM.

**Landing Pad:** Here the creations of the Cult Mechanicus are shipped to their destinations throughout the Imperium - superheavy tanks headed for distant war zones, air filters on their way to Hive Worlds such as Armageddon and Necromunda, and so on. The landing pad (or pads) are open ground which can be covered at speed by vehicles and infantry (treat as a Road) while the control towers and subsidiary buildings provide cover and protection for infantry inside (treat as Standard Buildings). Troops dropped off by transport flyers which land on the pad do not have to sacrifice 5 cm of their movement to disembark (same for embarking).

**Molten River:** This part of the Forgeworld is divided into two by a massive river of molten metal. Open girder bridges cross over the bubbling liquid at regular intervals but the heat emanating from the stream of white-hot metal is enough to make unprotected troops faint and melt the wiring in vehicles. The river itself is impassable to everything and any model that attempts to move through the bridges will suffer a hit on a d6 roll of 5+ at -1 TSM.

**Power Station:** Huge capacitors store up the energy generated by the roaring furnaces, while fusion reactors and plasma chambers generate raw power to be distributed through massive cables and along pylon-supported wires to the factories and smelting works of the Adeptus Mechanicus. Perhaps it is a Generator Vulcanis, tapping directly into the white-hot mantle beneath the Forgeworld's crust, using the immense potential of geothermal energy to send gigawatts of power surging through its web of conduits to nearby installations. Power stations can be highly volatile areas and troops who take shelter in such a place must be careful to pay heed to the warning signs and hazard markers lest they melt down a plasma reactor or electrocute themselves on a live wire! A power station counts as a Standard Building, but each model inside must roll 1d6 in the End phase: on a 6 they are hit with a 0 TSM.

**Scrap:** A huge pile of twisted metal, cables, pipes, engines and other debris waiting to be recycled has collected in this part of the battlefield. The small hill of junk counts count as Ruins.

Smelting Works: The gantries and walkways of the smelting works (count as Ruins for infantry and cavalry, impassable to vehicles) criss-cross over a web-like net of channels and pools of molten metal which pour from huge vats into massive moulds. The whole process may be automated, with one end of the production line churning out Rhino hulls, Leman Russ track links or thousands of different items, leading to a pile of material like a scrap heap. **Temple:** This part of the battlefield is a site for a huge temple to the glory of the Machine God. Constructed out of the hardest alloys, bearing many runes of power and prayer, the temple is a solid Stronghold in which the followers of the Machine God can find refuge and fighters of any race can seek protection and cover.

NetEpic 5.0 Optional Rules

39