> Source: 02A Netepic Optional Rules V5 Final 1, p.46 (02a_netepic_optional_rules_v5_final_1.pdf)

# NetEpic 5.0 Optional Rules

#### **Scenarios**

By Mark Watts, published in White Dwarf #172

**1) Rescue Operation:** There is a spy that needs to be rescued / captured. He is defended by a small contingent, but is behind enemy lines. One player becomes the defender and may place up to 25% of his forces defending the spy. No vehicles can be included in the defending garrison. The game is played by the long length of the table (6-8feet). The spy and the defense force are played way in the back in an area of 25 cm square. One building should be in this area and that's where the spy is. Place the rest of the defense force in the square. The defender's remaining units are placed on the diametrically opposed table edge. Once placed the attacker places all his forces 11/2 feet from the table edge where the defender set up his remaining forces (of it's a 8 foot long table 2 feet). NO fliers are allowed on either side! The spy is treated as a command unit with CAF of zero and no ranged weapons. Since both sides need him intact he cannot be voluntarily killed. If by happenstance he is "killed" treat as wounded and it cannot move any more, but can be transferred by vehicle. Victory is achieved by the defending player IF he can exit the spy out through the table edge he entered (meaning moving the spy clear across the table!) by turn 6. The attacker wins if he has control or disputed control of the spy. It is a draw if the defender has the spy but has not escaped by turn 6.

**2) A Bridge Too Far:** The game is played along the long axis of the table as in the previous scenario. Two rivers with one or more bridges are placed at the end of the table. One river is placed 1 foot from the edge the other 2 feet from the edge. Bridges should be placed to give so as to be equally close to both sides. The rivers are parallel to each other. For purposes of the scenario the bridges cannot be destroyed. If by happenstance, it is destroyed, treat as damaged and terrain difficult for infantry and impassable by all else. Armies deploy normally. Four objectives will be placed close to bridges, the others can be placed else where. The terrain around bridges should have many buildings. Normal victory conditions apply. This scenario can be turned into a siege scenario by having the defender behind the rivers preventing crossing.

**3) Flank Attack:** Deployment is as in a standard game, except one side can ONLY deploy in the middle 3 feet (on a 6 foot table) or 4 feet (on a 8 foot table). The extreme flanks of each side will be full of woods, hills of mountains. Objectives are placed normally. The opposing army may take up to 25% of his forces as a "flanking force" and MUST write down on what turn the flanking force will arrive and which side or the two "flanks" where the first player could not deploy. This must be done before he sees the deployment of that player (best done by letting the "flanker" deploy first). Normal victory conditions apply.

**4) Capture & Hold:** Only two objectives are used and are placed in the center of the table 3-4 feet apart. These are very important objectives and can be anything. Standard deployment applies. The objectives cannot be destroyed by either side or rendered impassible (as by say a pulsa rokkit). The winner is he who controls both objectives all else is a tie. The game lasts D3+3 turns. No VP's for casualties are awarded!! ONLY the objectives count.

**5) Break Out:** No objectives are used. One player is the attacker the other the defender. The defender may arrange terrain to his liking. The defender will have HALF the points in total the attacker has (if it is a 6000 point game the defender gets 3000 points). No fliers allowed on either side. The defender selects which side of the board he begins on and sets up anywhere on his half of the table. The game begins by attacker moving onto the board from the table edge - he does not deploy as his first turn IS deployment. The attacker must exit HALF of his army off the defenders side of the table. Broken units do not count! To make it easier calculate your total VP's in your army and you win if you get half of the off unbroken. Damaged Titans & Praetorians count as half VP's. Defender wins if less than half make it.

NetEpic 5.0 Optional Rules

45