> Source: 10 Slaan Army Book V5 Final 1, p.3 (10_slaan_army_book_v5_final_1.pdf)

# NetEpic 5.0 Slaan Army Book

## **Background**

The Slann are, perhaps, the eldest of sentient spacefaring races in the universe. What galaxy or planet spawned them is unknown even to the Slann themselves, since this fact is lost in the staggering mists of time. It is hypothesized that they may have emerged from a predominantly aquatic planet with the sparse landmasses being very humid. All this is conjecture and speculation however, since the Slann have never answered these questions. What is unquestionable is their technology and mastery of the warp. Amongst their greatest achievements is the warp web-way. Now mostly abandoned by the Slann and the still functional portals controlled by the Eldar. It is rumored that at the peak of their power they seeded life on many planets, including Earth. Every Slann is expected to live its life according to a strange, mystic and largely unfathomable ritual, as part of which the individual passes through life stages. The calling to a life stage would seem a real and almost unstoppable thing to a Slann, and can happen at any time, so that a peaceful technician may become a wanderer, a hermit, a warrior, etc.

Long ago the Slann slowly dwindled into stupor. Self-interest and introspection rose above curiosity and the care of the universe. Over thousands of years their decline was steady and relentless. Their favored children, the Eldar, became ascendant and claimed much of what were their masters, although never fully understanding the immensity of it. The Slann drifted away into uncaring oblivion. Then something in the recesses of the universe stirred. Slowly at first, but then it quickened its pace as galaxies died. Even then the Slann did not care. What were galaxies compared to the immensity of the universe? But also Slann worlds died and the long stupor collapsed and realization set in. Here was a foe equal to the might of the Slann. Unbending, unyielding and all consuming. The enemies were the Tyranids. At first the Slann were contemptuous of the lowly bio-tech spawns and easily crushed them. It became rapidly clear however that the foe had two enormous strengths. Numbers and adaptability. Where force of numbers would not suffice the rapid evolution of the Tyranid hordes made victories harder and harder.

The wise amongst the Slann soon knew that if other races did not commit to the war they would be doomed. The Slann have now entered the Imperium of Man and they demand that these younglings submit to their makers will and fight the Tyranids. But sometimes children can be rebellious

##### **Exodus Slann**

During the dwindling of the Slann Empire many Slann planets were not evacuated. These planets were long forgotten about. During the millennia of years that the Slann Empire lost interest in the galaxy these Slann fought to survive. They have lost much of their great technology and the society structure has collapsed. The Slann society on these planets is more of a tribal existence than a cultural one. Now that the Slann has started to rebuild their Empire in the galaxy they are finding these planets once again. Seeing that these planets were of Slann stock they were quickly adopted back into the Empire, and are know to the Slann as the Exodus Slann. The Exodus Slann though willing to follow there elder more advanced relatives would not let go of their cultural up bringing and somewhat refuse to live as they do. The Exodus Slann forum in to war bands that have war leaders at the head of every war band, at the head of all the war leaders is a war chief, at the head of all war chiefs is a Mage Chief. The Mage Chief is the oldest and most respected Exodus Slann on an Exodus Slann planet. The Exodus Slann have grown to love warfare, and after running out of resources to keep building Mechs, now believe them to only be used by cowardly intellects. They thus take a more direct approach to battle. They still however retain conversion technology and have built onthis; their power armor is fitted with a small conversion generator that provides an incredible amount of protection.

The Exodus Slann have been hard pressed over the years by invaders, and were forced to use lesser races in times of need. These races were of the Slann's first experiments with creating new races, they were used as slaves to do manual labor task that the Slann thought to meaningless for them to do. This race is known as the Dracons or called the Saurians.

The Exodus Slann are ancestor worshippers and pray to the Old Ones. The most important of the Old Ones are Tlaxcotl, Chotec, Quatl, Tzunki, Xapati, Huanchi, and the inscrutable Tepoc. These are the most powerful of the entities known to the Exodus as the Old Ones, the Primordial Patriarchs of the Exodus Slann race. On the Exodus Slann home worlds, you will find other lesser deities, but these are mostly deities of subservient beings. One such is Soteck, the warrior God of the Dracon. Exclusively the Dracon, who see him as both God of war and savior of their race, worships Soteck.

The Exodus Slann build huge pyramid cities in which to live. The largest of these pyramids are the temples of the Old Ones. These temples are collectors of psychic energy and warp energy, which the Exodus Slann Mage Chiefs manipulate to use their powers. Many of the creations of the Exodus Slann are affected in one way or another by this psychic energy. The Exodus Slann Mage Chiefs use it to manipulate materials and to aid in the construction of many things.

NetEpic 5.0 Slaan Army Book

2