> Source: Netea Tournament Pack, p.171 (netea-tournament-pack-2026-02-09.pdf)

# 6.0 EPIC GAMING

NetEA Tournament Pack - 2026-02-09

Epic Gaming

# **6.0 EPIC GAMING**

_"Myriad are the ways of war. The lightning strike, the tenacious defence, the cunning ruse; all have their time and place, oft as not dictated by the lie of the land or balance of forces that you find at your disposal. The art of war is learning how to bind the tactics, terrain and forces at your command to your advantage."_

#### _Imperium Tactica_

Tournament games are the single most popular form of Epic game. This is mainly because it is the easiest way to play Epic. All you have to do is use the army lists to collect an army, safe in the knowledge that you can use it to play an even and balanced game even against a complete stranger, something that is simply not possible with scenarios or campaigns. In order to achieve this happy state of affairs, tournament games require three things: _army lists_ , _points values_ , and a set of _tournament game rules_ .

An army list, as its name implies, is a list of units and formations that can be used by an army. What sets it apart from a simple order of battle, such as the forces included in the training scenarios presented earlier in this rulebook, is that it is a list of things you _can_ use in your army rather than a list of things you _must_ use. So, for example, a Space Marine army list would say something along the lines of: "You may have the following things in your army: Space Marine Tactical detachments, Space Marine Assault detachments, Space Marine Terminator detachments..." and so on. Army lists usually focus on one army, for example Space Marines, or Imperial Guard, or Orks, though some cover combined or allied forces. In addition, army lists can either be "generic" and cover all armies of that type, or "specific" and cover a particular army or famous regiment. For example, a generic Space Marine army list would allow you to collect any Chapter, while a Blood Angels army list would only allow Blood Angel units to be used. The advantage of specific lists is that they can include more interesting and characterful units, while a generic list lacks this level of detail but gives the player more freedom in terms of painting and modelling.

Of course, if players were simply allowed to pick any units or formations they liked from an army list then there is no way that tournament games could be fair-the player with the largest collection of models would always have a big advantage! Because of this, each formation and unit in an army list is given a points value The points value shows how effective the unit or formation is when it is used in a tournament game. So, for example, a mighty Baneblade tank would cost many more points than a humble Leman Russ, as the Baneblade will have a much greater impact on the course of the game. Players are then given the freedom to choose troops from their army list to a set points value. For example, players might agree to play a 2,000 point game, in which case each could pick troops worth 2,000 points from their own army list. As long as the army lists have been worked out properly, then any two armies with the same points value will have an equal chance of winning, although the actual composition of each army may be radically different, even if both are chosen from the same list. Returning to our prior example, one player might choose to take a few Baneblades, while his opponent chooses to take a horde of Leman Russ, but as long as the points values for the two units have been worked out

properly then each player will have the same chance of winning the game.

The final piece of the jigsaw is the tournament game rules. In order to create a fair and balanced contest, tournament games need to have a method of setting up the terrain, deploying the armies, and determining the winner that is as even as possible for both sides. These are known as the tournament game rules, and they need to be set out in advance along with the army lists, so that a player can choose his army knowing what sort of battle he will be fighting. Because of the desire to create an even contest, tournament game rules tend to be quite simple. Terrain will usually be kept to a minimum and not include too many exotic features, and both armies will usually deploy in a "set-up zone" near their own table edge. Victory conditions can be quite complex, but will almost always be the same for both sides (a process called "mirroring"). A very common set of tournament game victory conditions is to play for a certain number of turns, and then for each player to count up the points value of destroyed enemy units to see who has won. A variation on this theme is for each player to place a certain number of "objective markers" in the opposing half of the table, with the winner being the player that has captured the most objectives at the end of the game. Previous versions of Epic have used a combination of these two methods, with players winning points for destroying the enemy and capturing objectives, to determine the winner. However, whatever rules are actually used, the aim is always to create as even a contest as possible between the two armies picked from the army lists, and this usually leads to fairly straight-forward "line up and fight" battles with a minimum of terrain and mirrored victory conditions for both sides.

The overall effect of this is to create a game that is ideal for "pick-up" games between two players that have not met each other before. Tournament games allow the player to simply go ahead and collect an army, choosing whichever models they like within the constraints of the army list, and then turn up at a club or gaming event, find an opponent, and play knowing that the game will be as fair and even as possible.

165