> Source: 01 Netepic Core Rules V5 Final 1, p.5 (01_netepic_core_rules_v5_final_1.pdf)

# NetEpic 5.0 Core Rules

###### **A Short History of Epic Warfare**

Games Workshop first released **Adeptusplkoad i Titanicus** in 1988. It was a game of giant robot combat in the recently released Warhammer 40,000 universe. Set during a galaxy-wide war known as the Horus Heresy, half the human civilization was in revolt against the other half. You could customize titans and there were crew experience and campaign rules. The game created a lot of attention, and rules for infantry, tanks and artillery soon followed with the release of **Space Marine** . It was a bit complex with each 5-man infantry squad having multiple weapons, each firing multiple times. Support and additional rules for the game were published in Games Workshop's magazine _White Dwarf_ . Eventually, everything was brought together in the **Codex Titanicus** , which refined the rules and introduced Orks and the Eldar (Elves in space). As the game grew with success, other armies from the Warhammer 40,000 universe were incorporated, such as the Imperial Guard, Chaos and Squats (Dwarves in space).

**Space Marine 2nd Edition** was released in 1991. This removed a lot of the complexity from the basic rules but added a large number of special abilities. Over the next few years, the expansions _Renegades_ , _Armies of the Imperium_ and _Ork & Squat Warlords_ detailed various armies you could play. In 1995 came **Titan Legions** , which corrected a few minor errors in SM2 but added very little apart from some nice models. Space Marine 2 would go on to become one of Games Workshop's most popular gaming systems in the 1990s, and is still considered to be a classic. While official support is practically non-existent, many websites host copies of the rules, house rules, articles and army lists. NetEpic derives from Space Marine 2.

By 1997, Games Workshop figured they had done everything there was to do and set out to re-release the game as a new system. The result was **Warhammer Epic 40,000** , a complete re-write set 10,000 years after the Horus Heresy. The basic mechanics were slightly more complex than Space Marine, but there were none of the reams of special abilities and exceptions so it played a lot faster. On the down side, it had no reams of special abilities and the various races lacked flavor. Even though the system was very original and focused on firepower and the realistic effects of being shot at, the effects of damage were abstract and difficult for a new gamer to get into. The game never really caught on and support for the game was dropped from _White Dwarf_ not long after its release. **Adeptus Titanicus II** was released in 2000 and updated the giant robot rules. Unfortunately, it did not mesh well with the existing rules (Epic 40k in this case) and also failed to catch on.

When Games Workshop stopped directly supporting the game, one of the subsidiary companies called Fanatic Games took over the line. They made lots of miniatures and released the magazines _Epic 40,000 Firepower_ and _Epic 40,000 Magazine_ . Like the other editions of the game you can find websites supporting the system, but unlike the previous editions you can still find rulebooks and miniatures without a lot of work.

One of the private support groups, the **NetEpic Discussion Group** , was born on January 16th, 1997, on the old Space Marine majordomo list. It has since moved to the Yahoo Groups website, where it continues to debate the ongoing evolution of 6 mm warfare in the 41<sup>st</sup> Millennium. You are currently reading the fifth version of the rules. More recently, Fanatic Games released **Epic: Armageddon** in the summer of 2004. The rules were straightforward and well-written, freely available from the Fanatic Games website and included massive designer (Jervis Johnson) player interaction and feedback. However, with the folding of the Specialist Games titles back into the Games Workshop mainline in late 2004/2005, support was dropped and miniatures production placed in doubt. However, even the brief publication of E:A reinvigorated the concept of extensive small scale armies. NetEpic 5.0 is merely the latest step in the history of 6 mm warfare.

###### **Scale**

NetEpic is designed for the 6 mm scale, also known as 1:300 in the UK and 1:285 in the US (which are effectively the same thing). Each model represents one real vehicle or between three and ten soldiers. A suggested ground scale is 25 mm = 100 meters, but in most cases the true scale is pretty irrelevant.

As a note, the terms "ground scale" and "model scale" are two different things. Model scale is a ratio of how big the model is to how big a real-life object would be, e.g. a one-inch model in 1:300 scale would be 300 inches long. Ground scale is the size of the tabletop as opposed to the actual battlefield, e.g. 25 mm on the table might equal 100 meters in real life. Unfortunately, if the two scales were the same then even the lightest weaponry would be able to fire from one end of the table to the other. A model is an indication of where the troops are and what they look like, rather than an actual representation of their size on the battlefield. This distortion of the scales is necessary to achieve a playable system, and is why a couple of trees can represent a whole wood.

The time scale and length of a turn is fairly loose. Most real combat consists of sudden bursts of frantic shooting, separated by long periods of scouting and cautious movement. Although a game turn might only contain a few seconds of actual fire combat, the full turn may be assumed to occupy several minutes of elapsed time. If it is necessary to determine how long a battle lasts, treat each turn as 30 minutes. Hence a four-turn game would represent a battle lasting two hours, which could be important if either side is attempting to bring up nearby reserves.

NetEpic 5.0 Core Rules

3