> Source: 04A Adeptus Mechanicus Army Book V5 Final 1, p.23 (04a_adeptus_mechanicus_army_book_v5_final_1.pdf)

# NetEpic 5.0 Adeptus Mechanicus Army Book

### **The Imperator Titan**

Imperators come with fixed weapons and are not purchased according to the Purchasing Titans rules; you pay for one and there it is. A special data card and set of counters are used for operating the Imperator Titan.

###### **Set Up**

**Plasma Counters:** A dozen each of red and green counters, placed off to one side of the datacard. Plasma counters represent the energy generated by the titan's plasma reactor and are placed on the data card as the as the titan generates and allocate power to the titan's systems. The green represents normal plasma, and the red represents "overcharged" plasma that can increase performance. Two green plasmas equal a red plasma.

**Hellstorm Ammo Counters:** Ten counters of any kind, placed on the Hellstorm Cannon ammo track. The track is filled at the beginning of the game, and one counter is removed for each barrage fired.

**Void Shield Counter:** One conter of any kind, placed on the Void Shield track. This keeps track of the number of active void shields on the Imperator Titan. At the start of the game, the titan has 12 shields.

**Garrison Troops:** The Imperator Titan can carry up to 25 infantry stands in the positions noted on the datacard. You can use different kinds of counters to represent various troops, or enlarge the datacard and place the actual troops stands on it.

###### **Imperator Titan Weapons**

**Main Battery:** So long as plasma is allocated to the fire control center the Main Battery may be fired.

**Secondary Weapons:** So long as plasma is allocated to the fire control center the Secondary Battery may be fired.

**Gun Towers:** So long as plasma is allocated to the fire control center the gun towers may be fired.

**Point Defense:** These weapons fire in the First Fire segment as long as plasma is allocated to the fire control center.

**Defense Laser:** So long as plasma is allocated to the fire control center the Titan's defense laser may be fired. If the fire control center is overcharged, the defense laser may count as an Anti-Aircraft weapon. The defense laser adds +3 to damage rolls against targets that use a damage table (including superheavy vehicles).

**Hellstorm Cannon:** This weapon has 10 shots and is capable of shooting up to 4 barrage templates per turn. The cannon requires one green plasma counter in order to be charged and cannot be overcharged. Each barrage template fired uses up one ammo counter. All barrages fired in one turn from the Hellstorm cannon must be placed so that each template touches at least one other template in the salvo. Other than this the barrages are fired using the normal rules and may be fired indirectly. If fired indirectly, place the template(s) and roll for scatter for each template.

**Plasma Annihilator:** The Plasma Annihilator requires plasma counters in order to be charged. The number of attack dice is variable and dependent on the number of plasma counters allocated to it during the orders phase. Each green plasma counter gives two attack dice and each red plasma counter gives three attack dice. It is possible to place both red and green plasma counters in the Plasma Annihilator, but no more than four counters of either color may be placed in the accelerator chamber at one time.

NetEpic 5.0 Adeptus Mechanicus Army Book

22