> Source: 04C Adeptus Militaris Army Book V5 Final 1, p.3 (04c_adeptus_militaris_army_book_v5_final_1.pdf)

# NetEpic 5.0 Adeptus Militaris Army Book

### **Background**

The Adeptus Militaris is the most important and by far the largest fighting force of the Imperium. Drawn from the millions of inhabited worlds that make up the Imperium, the ranks of the Imperial Guard are truly immeasurable. This is the true army of the Imperium, unlike the elite strike forces of the superhuman Space Marines or the pious warrior women of the Sisters of Battle. Built upon the sweat, blood and bones of men, the mechanized punch of countless tanks and an iron will, the Imperial Guard fights the thousands of wars the Imperium wages each day.

Every world in the Imperium has it's own army to defend it against raiders, pirates and rebels. These local armies are maintained by the planet's own ruler and are known as the Planetary Defense Forces (PDF). Even though these forces might number several million troops this is not sufficient to withstand a full-scale planetary assault, but it is plenty to defend against localized attacks and raiders. In practice, the main role of the PDF is to serve as the personal troops of the planet's ruler, protecting against internal rivals and holding the line against off-world threats until reinforcements arrive.

The Imperial Guard is raised from the elite of the PDF and organized into armies which directly serve the Emperor and the Adeptus Terra. As part of its Imperial Tithe each planet is required to supply troops from its defense forces to be inducted into the Imperial Guard. When a new army is needed the Adeptus Terra determines which of the Imperium's millions of planets are next in line for recruitment. Planets with small populations are only liable for recruitment every hundred years or so, while more populous worlds may be chosen two or three times a decade. Once a planet is selected a recruiting officer visits the world and inspects it's military forces. If he is satisfied with the quality of the troops he will select whole divisions into the Imperial Guard. Once enough troops have been chosen from various worlds, they are shipped out to their assembly point at the war zone. Because an entire army is recruited at the same time it's troops tend to be of more-or-less the same age. Each division may be from a different world, but they will fight together from then on. None of the troops ever return home as the cost of moving large numbers of men across the galaxy is simply too great. As a result of this practice, individual cultures are transposed from one side of the galaxy to the other, overlaid with the martial traditions of the Imperial Guard and strengthened by years of battles where only the strong survive.

Once an army is created it receives no new divisions, though once stationed on a planet it is allowed to recruit from the local defense forces. This is rare, however, as an army sent into battle cannot spare any effort for recruitment. In most cases, the army will become smaller due to battle losses. From time to time it may be assigned support units, and it often happens that such troops assigned for a particular battle end up being permanently attached because their original army has been destroyed or posted to another battlefront before they can rejoin it. In some cases two or more depleted units may be combined to form a new one. This sort of thing happens all the time, so most Imperial Guard armies include a wide variety of troops.

After twenty years of fighting the army is as hard-bitten and battle-hardened as it is possible to be, with a fighting reputation won on some of the most dangerous battlefields in the galaxy. At that time, if the army has been successful, it will be allowed the honor of leading an invasion force to fight for possession of a new world. If the planet is conquered the army has earned the right to retire from the Imperial Guard and settle on the planet. In this way new worlds are added to the Imperium, settled by hardened warriors well able to defend themselves. Old warriors become the founding members of a hard-bitten aristocracy while regimental commanders become the first of the ruling class. Within a dozen generations the planetary population will have multiplied sufficiently to provide fresh divisions for the Imperial Guard.

**_The duty of the commander is to judge what means should be undertaken to achieve each objective. He must be aware of what is to be gained and what is to be lost. A commander who places his troops in a position where he may likely lose more than he may more likely gain risks more than the lives of his men. He risks far more; he risks failure. Loss is acceptable, failure is not._** _- Imperial record COM 07/580.f402,P7_

NetEpic 5.0 Adeptus Militaris Army Book

2